Hello and welcome.
In this election I want to talk about implementing the Singleton using the bill you approach remember
from the previous lecture we implemented the Singleton with a really common way using eager evaluation.
And so really all we did was we created an instance class loading time.
Now we notice that there were some problems with this and that it can and that all clients would automatically
always have the instance even if they didn't need it.
And so the bill Pugh approach is going to prove upon that and so just again just to recap most of the
scenarios when you write software singleton classes are created for resources such as file systems database
connections and so forth.
We want to avoid instantiating the actual Singleton until a client needs it until the client calls they
get instance method.
And so this is the big bill pure approach to creating a singleton.
What he does is he came up with the idea to use an interstate EC helper class.
It's the most widely used approach.
It doesn't require synchronization it's thread safe.
And it only creates instance when the client needs it.
It's easy to implement and understand.
And again it's regarded as the standard method to implement singleton demands.
So this is the approach that I recommend for the class.
I showed you four other approaches because you can do those in certain situations but in most situations
this is the one you want to do use.
So let's bring this up and ontology and I'll show you how you can implement this
so let's bring up until they are already created a project that represents the Singleton implemented
with the lazy evaluation approach.
I want to reuse that to demonstrate the pill.
Bill Pugh approach and so let's open up that project and start from there all the Singleton approaches
are so closely related.
I wouldn't I want to retype every sense of the commonality
until you'll notice this implementation looks somewhat familiar.
A couple of things we want to change for Bill.
You don't want to put the instance up here so we can delete the member variable here.
We can still have the Singleton private constructor that's always needed but now we're gonna do is we're
going to have a nested inter class and so the member variables is to be inside their so we're gonna
create a helper inside our singleton class.
This is our nested inter class.
It's gonna be private.
It's gonna be a static class and that's gonna be our Singleton single ton helper.
And so again just to put comments in here this is nested and that's the class.
It's like a private helper class.
It's referenced
after the get instance is called.
So after they get instance method is called and all you do in here is you put in your Singleton instance.
Right unique instance.
So we'd say private static final and what we want to do is we want to call this our single Singleton.
So we'll say private static final Singleton and we're gonna name this unique instance and we're gonna
say nuanced new Singleton.
So we're doing class loading but it's in a nested class where we're going to close that parentheses
or the bracket there.
Now in our Singleton we can reference a unique instance from the helper class.
So here we would have to say and we don't have to actually do a check.
We can just say return Singleton helper that unique instance.
And this is the bill Pugh approach.
So notice that the private interstate a class that contains the instance for the singleton class.
That's where the instance is created inside the private inner static class the nested class when the
singleton class is loaded.
The Singleton helper class is not loaded into memory in only when someone calls the gate instance method.
This class will then get loaded in create the singleton class instance.
Right.
So this solves the problem of the eager evaluation where you have to call get instance in order for
the Singleton unique instance to be created because that's one of the axis.
So this solves all the problems.
This is the recommended approach.
Let's summarize the other approaches that we mentioned real quickly and then we'll get into a challenge
in a demonstration.
So let's go back to the slides at this point
so to summarize all the approaches you want to use the lazy evaluation approach for creating a singleton.
If you're not worried about multiple threads so if you're doing something simple you don't have to worry
about race conditions or threads then you would use this but for the most part this is not the recommended
approach because most times you do have threads for most of applications you will need to ensure that
the Singleton works in the presence of multiple threats.
You can add the synchronous keyword to the get instance method if performance is not critical to your
application.
That was the synchronized approach when calling to get instance method is not causing substantial overhead
for your application you could also use this because there are some efficiency problems synchronize
and get instance is straightforward and effective.
Just keep in mind that synchronizing a method can decrease performance by a factor of 100.
So if a high traffic part of your code begins using the get instance you may want to reconsider using
the synchronized approach because of the efficiency issues because of waiting for the blocking you can
use to double check locking principal to increase performance in this get instance method.
That's an alternative to the synchronized approach.
If your application always creates and uses an instance of the singleton and is not using a lot of resources
then you can use.
Then you can use the eager evaluation approach you move to an eagerly created instance approach rather
than a lazily created one.
This will be threat say is that safe.
The only drawback is that the instance created even if the client application might not be using it.
And that brings us to the bill PR approach.
Bill who is the recommended approach because it creates a singleton using an inner static helper class
and only has the instance if you call the get instance method and so there is a rundown of multiple
approaches to implement the singleton.
Now let's test your knowledge by providing an assignment or a challenge and see how well you learned
everything.
Thank you.